>> Steve Kinney: So,
you told me all layers,
you told me I have no impact on them.
That was really demoralizing,
you can make suggestions to the browser.
It has its rules, it does its thing,
right, you can say,
hey, would you consider
making this its own layer?
Right, and they're like,
it's gonna change, I'm just telling you.
Things are gonna change, you're not gonna
wanna do all that repainting, browser,
I'm telling you, right?
You can convince the browser and
recommend that it become its own layer.
And so the way it works is a CSS
property called will-change.
And then whatever property
you think is going to change.
And a lot of our examples are sidebar,
we did with the transform.
I have, every time I've used this,
I think it takes so much arguments.
Every time I've used this one,
I'm using transform all the time.
So that's gonna be the example that I use,
cuz I couldn't come up with
a good reason for another one.
All right, what's the support for
this one look like?
IE and Edge don't support it, and you'll
be like, well, they are lagging behind.
Actually, Edge is of the opinion that
their compositing reasons are so
good that they don't need
your suggestions, right?
[LAUGH] It's not like they're behind,
that's not fair to whoever probably made
that case that I oversimplify like that.
But we're amongst friends,
it's cool [LAUGH].
They don't believe it's necessary, so
they have no intent on implementing it.
And the nice part is,
this is a progressive enhancement.
It's not like, well,
I can't use it cuz I support IE or Edge,
it just doesn't do anything then.
[LAUGH] Right, it's fine,
it doesn't break the web page,
it doesn't do anything wrong,
it's just a no-op in that case.
And then Opera Mini,
it renders your web page as an image and
sends it to the phone, so
it doesn't do anything.
Every time you see one of these can I
use charts, Opera Mini is always red.
But other than that, it's got pretty good
support across the rest of the browsers.
And like I said,
when it doesn't do anything,
that is also fine cuz then it just
doesn't do anything, it doesn't break.
You can use it and
browsers that support it will support it,
browsers that don't, don't.
There was an old hack for
this, which is translateZ.
Which is to change the 3D
positioning of an element.
And you can see, we're setting it to 0,
this will make it its own layer, but
it will force it.
will-change is a little bit better because
you make the recommendation saying,
this may become its own layer,
I'm just telling you.
Before, you were like,
that's its own layer, do it, and
you've tricked the browser into doing it.
You have this relationship of trust and
you violated it, so that's not great.
So generally speaking, this is a hack,
this is kind of a hack, but
it's a documented, supported,
recommended hack, so it's fine.
Cool, so what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna take that non-retina
version of the page, and
give it the CSS property of will-change,
and we'll see what effect that has.
>> Steve Kinney: So if I go in here into,
this one's called and go to style.css.
I'm gonna tell the header,
>> Steve Kinney: And
I'm gonna tell the footer the same thing.
And I will go back,
>> Steve Kinney: And
no more repaints.
Very cool, and so it works,
like I said, you got it for
free if you're using read to screen, cuz
the browser has made that optimization for
you, I didn't have it, and now it exists.
We're gonna look at a slightly more
intuitive example in a second, but
let's go back.
>> Steve Kinney: So here were
the layers before I made that change,
here were the layers after.
Let's do those slides two more times,
before, after, before,
after, right, get the major point?
Now, when we scroll the page,
that underlying layer is moving.
The compositor is basically just
moving it, but it's not repainting it.
We don't have to be like, hey,
what you look like now with how
much of you's in this slide?
We simply slide it up and
down underneath the header and the footer,
which also aren't changing.
And that's less work, less work is faster.
We got to skip painting,
we got to skip layout,
we went directly to compositor,
which is great.
So yeah, make everything a layer, right,
seems great, layer all the things.
Layers themselves aren't free, and
it's, again, a set of trade-offs.
So managing layers takes a certain
amount of work on the browser's behalf.
Each layer needs to be kept in
shared memory between the main and
composite threads.
When it's faster than painting,
it's great, but if you go ahead and
you make everything a layer, [LAUGH].
If everything is a layer,
then you have this entire thing,
you have to keep all of that in memory.
It's trying to help you out under
the hood, this is like putting parentheses
around everything to try to like help
the parser in JavaScript, right?
If you opt out of its helpful algorithms,
you've effectively made it useless.
If everything should be optimized,
guess what, nothing is optimized.
And our current example has a problem,
right?
I told you, things that are transformed
automatically get their own layer, right?
Things that are position fixed
on retina get their own layer.
Also, it seems weird that
it's called will-change, but
it didn't really change anything, right?
Seems like I've kind of hiding
something from you this entire time.
Which is,
the CSS rules are great for knowing,
the browser's good at figuring out
something that is its own layer.
What will-change is really useful for
is figuring out, wait,
it wasn't its own layer before, and
shouldn't have been its own layer.
But might need to be its own
layer very shortly, right?
So again, we render the page,
but then JavaScript shows up and
it's like,
I'm gonna change everything, right?
So we know, hey, this box,
that's the example we're gonna use.
But this element on the page,
it was static,
but the user's about to do something.
I am going to make it a CSS trans, I'm
gonna change the styles on it soon, right,
you have two choices, browser.
Either A, you can figure out all this
layer stuff at the moment I'm asking you
to do stuff, or you can get ready, right?
I'm gonna tell you that this box is gonna
change, this element is gonna change.
It's not changing yet, but why don't you,
while you're not doing anything else,
promote it to its own layer, so
when it's time to get going, you're ready?
Right, so this is an example where
it's not super helpful, right.
We're already transforming this sidebar in
this case, so it's already its own layer.
But what might become more
useful is to say, all right,
imagine that top will-change
isn't up there [LAUGH] so.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll have a transition,
when they hover,
we know that they're gonna click, right?
When they click,
we're gonna add the open thing, right?
We could theoretically promote it to
its own layer as soon as they click.
But when they hover, It's likely that
they're going to click, right, so
that's when we'll add the transform, and
we do need to clean it up afterwards.
We'll add the transform,
then it'll be promoted to it's own layer.
By the time they get around to clicking,
just slide that layer over.
Right, it's a really
useful way of doing it.